Problem Statement ID	
1759
Problem Statement Title	
DYNAMIC MAIL TRANSMISSION SOLUTION USING BEST CONNECTIVITY ACROSS MODES "Serving a large country like India with the 
habitations across states, cities, towns, blocks and villages with geographic diversity as well is a complex task. 
The availability of multiple modes of transport for secure transmission of mail, parcels, cargo and people is a boon. 
Postal mail with its volume, value and weight profile has unique requirements for efficient and effective transmission
 to cover all delivery points around the sorting and transmission hubs that have been created over the years. With a 
focus on dynamic allocation and use of available transport within the structure of mail operations defined by the 
Department of Posts, we need a system to help choose the best mode across land, rail, air and water for fastest 
transmission of mail in each local context. "



Background: India Post boasts the world's largest postal network. However, ensuring the timely and accurate transmission 
of mail remains a significant challenge. Transmission of mails in the Department of Posts is done through its own 
Mail Motor Service and hired contractual Road Transport Network. Apart from that Postal Mail transmission is also heavily
 reliant on third party operators, viz., Railways, Flights, Ships, Helicopters etc. Few issues that hamper timely 
transmission are natural calamities, rescheduling or cancellation of flights / trains / ships / helicopters etc.,
 security detention, Embargo, Road / Rail accidents, blockage etc. Description: Postal services are the backbone on 
written communication even today. In a country like India, that is heavily dependent on migrant workers and earning 
members of families living in far off places, parcels / gifts / medicines etc. sent through the postal network too play 
a vital role.In order to transmit all such mails in a streamlined way, and in a time-bound manner, methodical planning 
and utilizing all available transport channels in the most effective manner is of utmost importance. Expected Solution:
 1. Predicting optimum mode of routing and transmission using the best available connectivity, considering real-time data
 and availability of space. 2. Mode of transmission that will be interactive with the transport agency. 3. The solution 
should also have interface for monitoring mail transmission, suggesting alternative routes, self-learn from previous 
situations to identify the fastest mode of transmission utilizing all available channels. 4. Alerts to the customer 
(both sender and addressee) may be sent conveying information about any changes/delay in normal transmission caused 
by any beyond-control situations.